.. _rmpoint :

&nbsp_place_holder;

> **_RMPOINT_**

>

>> Removes nodes or marks nodes for removal points or removes elements from a
mesh.&nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder; The first option sets the node
type flag&nbsp_place_holder; [itp=**ifitpdud** (21)] to indicate that the set
of nodes are treated as invisible, but does not actually remove the
nodes.&nbsp_place_holder; Elements will also be removed.&nbsp_place_holder;
If&nbsp_place_holder; **inclusive **is specified, any element containing a
marked node will be removed.&nbsp_place_holder; If&nbsp_place_holder;
**exclusive **is specified (default), any element containing a retained node
is retained.&nbsp_place_holder; The second option, **compress**, removes the
invisible nodes (i.e. those nodes whose itp1 value is 21) from the data
structure and material-wise resequences all remaining
nodes.&nbsp_place_holder; The third option, **zero_volume**, will remove
elements whose volumes are less than or equal to the specified
threshold.&nbsp_place_holder; The fourth option,** element, **will remove all
marked elements from the mesh.&nbsp_place_holder; Marked elements have a
negative value for the first entry in the itet vertex list.&nbsp_place_holder;
The fifth option will remove a specified list of elements from the
mesh.&nbsp_place_holder; The sixth option will remove elements that are
specified in a named element set from the mesh. The seventh option, **womesh
**will delete stray nodes that are not connected to any element and that are
not parent nodes.

FORMAT: **rmpoint**/ifirst,ilast,istride/[**exclusive**|**inclusive **]

**rmpoint**/**compress**/   
**rmpoint/zero_volume**/threshold   
**rmpoint/element**   
**rmpoint/element**/tet list   
**rmpoint/element/eltset,**get,esetname   
**rmpoint/womesh** EXAMPLES:   
&nbsp_place_holder; **rmpoint/pset, **get, pset1

&nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder; mark all the nodes
in pset1 for removal.&nbsp_place_holder; Remove elements all of whose vertices
are members of pset1.

**rmpoint/compress**   
**&nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder; **remove all marked nodes and correct the itet array   
**rmpoint/zero_volume/**1.e-16   
&nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder;
remove all elements with volumes less than 1.e-16

**rmpoint/element/**27 259 1009   
&nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder;&nbsp_place_holder;
remove the three specified elements

**rmpoint/element/eltset, **get, myeset

